MARS.
 

CYDONIA.
Name: Cydonia Region4  ( /s?'do?ni?/, /sa?'do?ni?/ )
Location: Cydonia lies in the planet’s northern hemisphere in a transitional zone between the heavily cratered regions to the South, and relativerly smooth plains to the North. 
Description: It is a region on Mars that has attracted both scientific and popular interest.

“Some planetologis believe that the northern place may once have been ocean beds and that Dydonia may one have been a coastal zone.”
-	Cydonia Mensae (Area of flat-topped mesa-like features)
-	Cydonia Colles (small hills or knobs)
-	Cydonia Labyrinthus (complex of intersecting valleys) 
Popular Culture: Music: Knights of Cydonia – Muse  (2006)
                 Videogames: X-COM: UFO Defense (1993)



FACE ON MARS
Name: Face on Mars
Location: Located about half-way between Arandas Crater and Bamberg Crater, situated at 40.75° north latitude and 9.46° west longitude.  
Description:  In one of the images taken by Viking 1 on July 25, 1976, a 2 km (1.2 miles) of the long Cydonian mesa there is an area which had the appearance of a humanoid face. 
Twenty years after, a succession of spacecraft visited Mars and made new observations of the Cydonia region. Since it was originally first imaged, the "face" has been near-universally accepted as an optical illusion, an example of the psychological phenomenon of pareidolia.
After analysis of the higher resolution Mars Global Surveyor data NASA stated that "a detailed analysis of multiple images of this feature reveals a natural looking Martian hill whose illusory face-like appearance depends on the viewing angle and angle of illumination”
Popular Culture: Comic books: Martian Manhunter (#1, 1998)
TV series: Phineas and Ferb ("Unfair Science Fair", 2009)



MARINERIS VALLEYS
Name:  Valles Marineris
Named after the Mariner 9 Mars orbiter which discovered it
Location: East side of the Tharsis region
Description: It is a system of canyons that runs along the Martian suface east of the Tharsis region. The Valles Marineris system starts in the west with Noctis Layrinthus; proceeding to the east are Tithonium and Ius Chasmata, then Melas,Candor and Ophir chasmata, then Coprates Chasma then Ganges, Capri and Eos chasmata, finally it empties into and outflow channel region containing chaotic terrain that ends in the basin of Chryse Planitia. 
Curiosity: It has been recently suggested that Valles Marineris is a large tectonic “crack” in the Martian crust as a result of erosion.



PHOBOS Y DEIMOS 
Both of them are natural satellites discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall.

PHOBOS
Name: Phobos (Greek F?ß??)
Phobos is named after the Greek god Phobos, a son of Ares (Mars) and Aphrodite (Venus) which was the personification of Horror.
Location: Phobos orbits 6,000 km (3,700 mi) from the Martian surface, closer to its primary than any other known planetary moon.
Description: A small, irregularly shaped object with a mean radius of 11 km. Phobos has dimensions of 27 × 22 × 18 km, and is too small to be rounded under its own gravity. Its surface area is slightly less than the land area of Delaware. Phobos does not have an atmosphere due to low mass and low gravity.  It is one of the least reflective bodies in the Solar System.
Curiosity.  Phobos is heavily cratered.  The most prominent surface feature is the crater Stickney, named after Asaph Hall's wife, Angeline Stickney Hall.


DEIMOS 
Name: Deimos
Greek ?e?µ??
In Greek mythology, Deimos was the twin brother of Phobos and personified Terror.
Location: Deimos orbits 23,460 km from the Martian surface.
Description: Deimos, like Mars's other moon, Phobos, has spectra, albedos and densities similar to those of a C- or D-type asteroid. Like most bodies of its size, Deimos is highly non-spherical with triaxial dimensions of 7.8 x 6.0 x 5.1 km. is composed of rock rich in carbonaceous material, much like C-type asteroids and carbonaceous chondrite meteorites. It is cratered, but the surface is noticeably smooth. The two largest craters, Swift and Voltaire, each measure about 3 km (1.9 mi) across.
Curiosity: In the book “Gulliver trips”- Jonathan Swift written in 1726, he describes the existence of two moons around Mars before this fact was discovered in 1877. The same happens in Voltaire’s masterpiece “Micromegas” written in 1752. In both cases, the authors seem to guess what years after would be a scientific fact. This is why two of the mayor craters in Deimos are known by the names of “Swift” and “Voltaire” 



MOUNT OLIMPUS
Name: Mount Olimpus (Latin: Olimpus Mons)
Location: Olympus Mons is located in the Tharsis plateau 18.65°N 226.2°E 
Description: It is a large shield volcano on the planet Mars. By one measure, it has a height of nearly 22 km (14 mi). This makes it the second tallest mountain in the Solar System. Olympus Mons is the youngest of the large volcanoes on Mars, having formed during Mars's Amazonian Period. The volcano is surrounded by a region known as the aura, with huge gorges and mountains stretching 1,000 km from its peak, putting into evidence an ancient glacial activity.
Curiosity: Olympus Mons stands almost three times as tall as Mount Everest's height above sea level. 



GALLE
Name: Galle. It is named after the astronomer Johann Gottfried Galle.
Location:  It is located on the eastern rim of the huge impact basin Argyre Planitia 
Description: Galle is a crater on Mars. It is an approximately circular depression in the martian surface, formed by the hypervelocity impact of a smaller body with the surface. In contrast to volcanic craters, which result from the explosion or internal collapse. 
Curiosity: Galle is often known as the "happy face crater" because the illusion of a smiley is created by a curved mountain range in the southern part of the crater and two smaller mountain clusters further north. It was used as a story location in the comic book Watchmen by David Gibbons and Alan Moore.
The actual crater was visualized in the 2009 film adaptation of Watchmen.



WHITE ROCK
Name: No official name yet.
For the moment it is dubbed as “Pinnacle Island”
Location: An area known as Meridiani Planun 
Description: According to NASA’s statement: “It is a bright-toned, nearly white with a small portion which is deep red in color”. It is about the size of a doughnut. 
Curiosity: Scientists are stumped as to how a rock mysteriously appeared in images taken on January 2014 by NASA’s Mars rover Opportunity, giving them an unexpected science bonus. They suspect the rock was flipped over by one of the rover’s wheels or that it might have been deposited after a meteorite landed nearby. 



INCA CITY
Name: Inca City is the informal name given by Mariner 9 scientists in 1972
Location: It is located among the layered materials of the south polar region of Mars.
Description: Inca City is a set of intersecting, rectilinear ridges that are located among layered materials. Their origin has never been understood; most investigators thought they might be sand dunes, either modern dunes or, more likely, dunes that were buried, hardened, then exhumed. Others considered them to be dikes formed by injection of molten rock (magma).
Curiosity: The Mars Global Surveyor (MGS) Mars Orbiter Camera (MOC) has provided new information about the "Inca City" ridges, though the camera's images still do not solve the mystery.  The MOC image shows that the "Inca City" ridges, located at 82°S, 67°W, are part of a larger circular structure It is possible that this pattern reflects an origin related to an ancient, eroded meteor impact crater that was filled-in, buried, then partially exhumed. 
There is another theory which explains these massive structures were first identified as potential city ruins of intelligent construction on a grand scale by Dr. Dan Burisch in the late 1990’s, with these new images the theory may be proved. 



MARE AUSTRALE QUADRANGLE
Name: Mare Australe Quadrangle. The quadrangle's name derives from an older name for a feature that is now called Planum Australe, a large plain surrounding the polar cap.
Location: The quadrangle covers all the area of Mars south of 65°, including the South polar ice cap, and its surrounding area.
Description: It is one of a series of 30 quadrangle maps of Mars used by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Research Program. The Mare Australe quadrangle is also referred to as MC-30 (Mars Chart-30). 
Curiosity: Swiss cheese features (SCFs) are curious pits in the south polar ice cap of Mars (Mare Australe quadrangle) named from their similarity to the holes in Swiss cheese. They are typically a few hundred meters across and 8 metres deep, with a flat base and steep sides. The SCFs have been observed to grow in size, year by year, at an average rate of 1 to 3 meters




MARE BOREUM QUADRANGLE
Name: Mare Boreum Quadrangle (It’s name derives of and older name for a feature that is now called Planum Boreum)
Location: It covers all of the North Martian surface of latitude 65° (it includes the north polar ice cap)
Description: The Mare Boreum Quadrangle is one of a series of 30 quadrangle maps of Mars used by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Research Program. It is also referred to as MC-1 (Mars Chart-1) The quadrangle includes some very large craters that stand out in the north because the area is smooth with little change in topography. These large craters are Lomonosov and Korolev. Although smaller, the crater Stokes is also prominent.
Curiosity: Mariner 9 in 1972 discovered a belt of sand dunes that ring the polar ice deposits, which is 500 km across in some places and may be the largest dune field in the solar 

